Dear Teacher, I would like to ask for your guidance on the
following matter: My aunt's family has
consulted many fortune tellers, all of whom say that her husband's family, from their ancestors'
time, owes a debt to the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma,
and Sangha) for a stone from a temple. My aunt has
already performed a ceremony, but the fortune tellers still say they owe a
debt to the Three Jewels. My aunt is worried that her descendants will suffer the consequences, so she asked me to ask you for advice on what her family should do. I beg you to guide my aunt's family. Regarding the matter of taking things from
temples and shrines and keeping them for oneself, the family has encountered many problems. This is something we have heard many times; it's a very real story, isn't it? But
here, when fortune tellers say something is a
debt, we shouldn't fully believe it. We
need confirmation from the
fortune teller that it was taken or not.
If not,
we shouldn't believe it immediately. Because
when they catch us, we might end up paying the debt to the temple, to the Taoist deity, to
all sorts of other things.
That way, whatever we want to gain,
we just need to take refuge in the Three Jewels.
Do you understand, dear friends? Taking refuge in the Three Jewels, repenting of
karmic obstacles, developing a mind for practice, making offerings to the
Three Jewels, and dedicating the merit will lessen our karmic debt and
increase our merit. So don't worry,
just take refuge in the Three Jewels. Just abandon evil and do good, and you
won't gain anything, right?
If you continue to do evil, you will still be
indebted to sentient beings, accumulating more and more. If you do
evil, you
will be indebted to sentient beings. But if we abandon evil and do good, we will repay all our karmic debt and gain
merit. Sometimes we won't even have to repay it; we'll just
keep doing good deeds and not be indebted to anyone
anymore, right? So don't worry about
that. At home, we just perform the ceremony of taking refuge in the
Three Jewels, the ceremony of repentance, offering to the
Buddha, and making offerings to the Three Jewels. If our family or
ancestors in previous generations have inadvertently taken anything from the
Three Jewels, then now our family can make
offerings according to our hearts' wishes to dedicate the merit, and
we pray that we may be able to eliminate the karmic
debts that our ancestors in previous generations committed.  I
have inadvertently violated the sacred relics
of the temple/pagoda. Is that acceptable?
Next question:
I respectfully ask for your guidance, Venerable Master.
My name is Nguyen Thi Hong, from the Buddhist group
Nhu Thanh Thanh Hoa.
Accidents and deaths frequently occur on the
road in front of my house. Every day, my family practices the
eighth sutra and dedicates the
merits of our practice to the
souls of those who died in the accidents. Is that acceptable? Because we also want to do good for those traveling on the road to prevent accidents. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, there are two causes of accidents. The first is a current cause, unrelated to spirituality. If the
road is a curve that
obstructs visibility, then
that is an objective external factor,
not caused by spirits. However,
if the road is very bright and in
good condition, with
no obstructions, then
we should consider the spiritual aspect.
Not yet. That means the
scientific aspect is guaranteed, only then should we
consider the spiritual aspect. If the
scientific aspect isn't guaranteed in
Buddhism, then both science and
spirituality are involved. The Buddha was a being of great wisdom;
his wisdom encompassed both science and
metaphysical spirituality. So, if
a section of road near your house
is out of sight and dangerous,
we should propose to the local authorities
that they implement the
best measures, such as convex mirrors or
something suitable for traffic
to prevent accidents. That's a
good intention. If
that section of road
already has traffic safety features but accidents still occur,
then we should consider the
spiritual aspect. At home, you ca
n't practice the eighth mantra and dedicate the merit,
so you can invite the entire
congregation. Then, we can contribute a
small amount of money to buy food and other necessities.
Either we invite a teacher
or we...  We will set up a Dharma hall ourselves, and the club
will guide us to establish a
Dharma hall. We will offer food to the spirits, chant scriptures for them for three
days, and then make offerings according to our means to the Three Jewels, dedicating the
merit to them. If possible,
we can invite venerable monks
to perform the Three Jewels ceremony for them so they can take
refuge in the Three Jewels and escape from
that place. They won't be there to tease or
harm others anymore, and
that would be a good thing. However, it
must be done in a Dharma hall; don't do it alone,
don't dedicate the merit there, it will cause
trouble. That won't work, will it?
Yes, a question from Buddhist follower Pham Kim Lien,
please guide the club leader. If we want to practice the Six
Harmonies to gain merit,
how should Buddhist followers practice together monthly?
If we are far apart and cannot practice together,
can we still gain the merit of the Six Harmonies by practicing at home according to the guidance of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club?
Thank you for your guidance.
Dear fellow practitioners, if we want to practice the Six Harmonies,
we must have a Dharma
hall. Because harmony requires people to practice
together.  Only through mutual understanding and discussion can there be harmony in thought and
speech, right?
If we don't practice together in the same Dharma center, we can
never practice the Six
Harmonies. Therefore, if you want to practice the
Six Harmonies alone, you must join a
group of Buddhists, like the Golden Cup Club, which is for
Buddhists who live far away. But even there, there is still the Six Harmonies; there
are leaders and deputies,
and if you can practice, you report; if you can't, you don't
report. That means you're practicing the Six Harmonies to achieve
enlightenment. So, there, you must report and
practice the mental practices to be able to practice the Six Harmonies. No matter how far away you are,
if you join the Golden Cup Club, you
can still practice the Six Harmonies. Because the
Golden Cup Club consists of
different groups; some groups
might have only two or three people from one
province, and another two or three people from another. They are far apart,
so they are put into one group
online. There, we ask about
each other's health, we discuss
Dharma, we discuss everything
online. That's still
harmony in thought and speech, quý  My friend, that's why, for
peace to be called peace, there must be discussion and negotiation;
otherwise, Laos and
LC cannot make peace.
[music]